# Monopoly
Monopoly is a multi-player board game about economics. In the game, players roll two dice to travel about the board, purchasing, trading, and constructing properties with houses and hotels. Gamers collect rent from their opponents in order to bankrupt them. Money can also be won or lost using Chance and Community Chest cards, as well as tax squares. Participants earn a stipend for each "Go" they pass and can end up in jail, from which they cannot escape unless one of three conditions is satisfied. There are house rules, hundreds of distinct editions, several spin-offs, and associated media. Monopoly has become an international popular culture phenomenon, having been licensed locally in over 103 countries and printed in over 37 languages. The game was reported to have sold 275 million copies globally as of 2015. Monopoly is derived from The Landlord's Game, which was created in the United States in 1903 by Lizzie Magie to demonstrate that an economy that rewards individuals is better than one in which monopolies hold all the wealth and to promote Henry George's economic theories, particularly his ideas about taxation. The Landlord's Game originally featured two sets of rules, one with tax and one without, on which the current rules are mostly based. Monopoly was initially released by Parker Brothers in 1935 without the less capitalistic taxation regulation, resulting in a more hostile game. Parker Brothers was subsequently bought up by Hasbro in 1991. The game is called after the economic notion of monopoly—a single entity's dominance over a market.
